---
layout: post
title: Why Blog?
permalink: /whyblog
---

If you’re reading this, you are probably facing the challenge of adjusting to a
new lifestyle. Maybe you’ve moved away from your friends and are trying to find
your place in a new community. Or perhaps you live around close friends but the
nature of your friendships has changed because you’ve all started working. How
do you build relationships when physical and emotional distances suddenly seem
so large?

If I could answer that question, I'd probably be selling you my self-help books
instead of writing here. No, I don't know the answer to that question, but I’ve
found that blogging helps.

To be clear, I don’t mean a blog you’ll show to future recruiters. I’m talking
about a personal blog. My friends and I have blogs that we only share with each
other. On our blogs, we write about whatever we want. Sometimes we write about
fruit tarts, sunsets, and grocery store sales. Other times, we write about our
breakups, the tightrope walk of working life, and the struggle to make friends.
There are only a few people who would care enough to read our blogs — the
people who care about us.

So why do we blog?

**Blogging facilitates contact.** Isn’t it weird how friendships can feel
long-distance even though you live 5 minutes away from each other? I consider
myself relatively proactive in reaching out and I still find it hard to
maintain contact with people that I don’t see in the office. And it’s like, I
can easily name people I want to get to know better — if I’m showing you this
post, you’re probably one of them — it’s just hard to figure out how much
contact to make. How often do I message someone? Or invite them to hang out? I
have to admit that most days I take the easy way out and just stay home. Sadly,
I’ve found this strategy a surefire way to have a lot of acquaintances but few
friends. You might understand how this feels. Then know this too: there are
people who want to get to know you better, just as you want to get to know them
better. If only we could oil the gears a bit!

In my life, blogging has sparked friendships by providing an easy way to reach
out. Suppose an acquaintance messages you out of the blue with a “hey how’s it
going?” You might respond nicely but the first question on your mind is
probably something like “uh why is this person reaching out?” I dunno about
you, but this scenario keeps me from reaching out to people too. Now suppose
you wrote a blog post about a hobby of yours, let’s say biking, and someone
messages you “hey i read your post i like biking too!” This time you’re
probably like “oh cool a biking buddy!” And eventually you don’t remember how
the conversation started but now you’re talking about your favorite movies and
you made dinner plans for Thursday night with a few other friends. All you
needed was that opportunity to make initial contact.

**Blogging invites deep conversation.** Life is filled with ups and downs. It’s
hard to talk about the downs though, even with people you trust. Will she
understand what I’m going through? What if he already has a lot going on in his
life and feels burdened? The nice thing about blogging is that you have time
and space to express your thoughts with less regard for how other people will
perceive them. It’s your blog, so write whatever you’d like, whether happy or
sad. There’s no expectation that everyone reading your post will want to
respond. But maybe someone will. I can’t tell you the number of conversations
I’ve had that start with: Hey I read your blog post…

…thanks for sharing! How are you feeling now?
<br>
…and I had a question about something you said.
<br>
…I relate super hard. Actually I’m going through something similar too.
<br>
…I didn’t know you were going through that. Can you tell me more about it?
<br>
…I was surprised to hear someone else is going through this too. I thought I was alone.

By having a place to freely write and share, you also invite the people that
care about you into your life. Your friends probably want to have deeper
conversations with you just as much as you do. You can give them easy
opportunities to do so through blogging.

Now don’t get me wrong, I like talking about my weekends too. But sometimes it
feels like every Monday I talk about the past weekend and every Friday I talk
about the upcoming weekend. Sometimes it’s nice to talk about a blog post
instead.

**Blogging is low pressure.** Alright look, your English teacher probably cared
about your prose and writing style but we don’t. If we wanted impressive
writing we’d go read Toni Morrison or something. We read your blog because
you’re the one writing it. So just write in whatever fashion you like, at the
pace you like. You can write bullet point half-sentences in all lower-case
English with no regard for grammar if you want, that’s totally cool. And there
are no deadlines, so you don’t even have to blog regularly. It’s your blog. You
do you.

**But what do I write about?** When you first start out, you don’t even have to
write anything. Just make a post with your favorite YouTube videos or quotes or
whatever. Once you have something down it’s a lot easier to keep going. Try
writing about a hobby. How did you get started? What do you enjoy about it? Or
write about a friend. How did you meet this person? How have they influenced
your life? You can write about your favorite restaurants and what you order at
these places. If you’re feeling adventurous, try answering this question:
what’s something you’ve realized recently?

**Okay, so how do I make a blog?** Making a blog is easy! Visit
[wordpress.com][wp] and click the big pink “Start your website” button.
Click through the steps there and don’t worry about having a perfect blog title
or theme. You can change all of that whenever you want. Once you have a blog,
let me or a friend know and we’ll show you how to follow other people. Finally,
I suggest downloading the app so you can get a feed of our blog posts. It’s
like a healthy News Feed.

**How do I share this post with other people?** You can send your friends this
link: [samlau.me/whyblog][perma] . That will always link to the most updated
version of this post and anyone can view it.

[wp]: https://wordpress.com/
[perma]: https://samlau.me/whyblog
